1) _Ensure the CRio CONSOLE OUT Dipswitch is off_

If the CRio CONSOLE OUT Dipswitch is ON, the Serial Port will be used exclusively by the CRio to output debug/status messages to a serial terminal.  In this case, the Serial Port cannot be used to communicate to the nav6 Open Source IMU.

2) _Verify your Serial Cable is straight-through (not a null modem cable)_

Pin 2 on the CRio Serial Port Connector must be connected to Pin 2 on the nav6 Serial Port Connector.  CRio Serial Port Connector Pin 3 must be connected to nav6 Serial Port Connector Pin 3.

Some Serial Cables, known as "null-modem" cables, will connect Pin 2 on one side to Pin 3 on the other, and will connect Pin 3 on one side to Pin 2 on the other.

Attempting to use a null-modem cable, or any other cable that does not connect Pins 2 and 3 "straight through" will likely result in frustration, and is not recommended.

3) _Select an update rate that ensures sufficient CPU bandwidth._

On certain platforms, such as a CRio running Java, running the nav6 at a high update rate (e.g., 100Hz) may result in excessive CPU utilization; if this is the case, reduce the update rate to an appropriate setting for your environment.

The FRC Driver Station's "Chart" Tab can be used to monitor the CPU consumption, providing feedback that will help if tuning is required.

4) _Ensure the "Black Jaguar Serial Bridge" CAN Plugin is not installed._

This can be verified by running the FRC cRIO Imaging tool, and verifying that the CAN Driver Plugin is not configured to load the Black Jaguar Serial Bridge.  The Black Jaguar Serial Bridge uses the cRIO Serial Port, and the nav6 requires exclusive use of the Serial Port in order to function correctly.